---
layout: project
title: "Boids"
modified:
excerpt: "Implementation of Boids algorithm."
date: 2015-01-16
tags: [projects]
viz:
  boids: true
  caption: Live demo of boids showing quadtree evolution as boids change position.
---

<div markdown="0"><a href="https://github.com/jiekebo/boids" class="btn">Go to GitHub project ></a></div>

Being intersted in automata, procedural generation and artificial intelligence and having marveled at various visualizations of these, I felt a strong desire to know how they were made. Reading about Craig Reynolds' algorithm in this <a href="http://www.vergenet.net/~conrad/boids/pseudocode.html">pseudocode</a> I decided to have a go at it myself.

So this is the result, having decent performance with 50 boids. Definitely there is room for improvement. Currently the vector library uses some functional-style currying which creates a new vector object each time a vector operation is perfomed, probably not very optimal. But the biggest sin is that a boid considers all boids in the simulation, and not just the ones in the vicinity. If that was to be done the performance would get better since a boid needs to consider influence from less boids. One thing that would still be slow is that a distance from each boid, to each boid would have to be calculated at every frame. The remedy to this would be to use a spatial data structure like a quadtree.

#### Update 2015-02-02
In my previous posting about this mini-project I had some concerns about the performance when finding neighbouring boids. This has now been remedied using a nice quadtree! The above demo shows the boids and the quadtree as it is being rebuilt frame by frame.